Docs: Reorganize Configuration Documentation (#13837)
eslint/eslint: docs/user-guide/configuring/ignoring-code.md

# Ignoring Code

* [`ignorePatterns` in config files](#ignorepatterns-in-config-files)
* [`.eslintignore`](#eslintignore)
* [Using an Alternate File](#using-an-alternate-file)
* [Using eslintIgnore in package.json](#using-eslintignore-in-packagejson)
* [Ignored File Warnings](#ignored-file-warnings)
* [Disabling Inline Comments](#disabling-inline-comments)

## `ignorePatterns` in config files

> You can tell ESLint to ignore specific files and directories by `ignorePatterns` in your config files. Each value of `ignorePatterns` is the same pattern as each line of `.eslintignore` in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can tell ESLint to ignore specific files and directories by `ignorePatterns` in your config files. Each value of `ignorePatterns` is a glob pattern similar to what you would use on the command line.
```

I don't think referring to `.eslintignore` helps here, so I'd suggest removing it.

> You can tell ESLint to ignore specific files and directories using `ignorePatterns` in your config files. Each value of `ignorePatterns` is a glob pattern similar to what you would use on the command line.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a wrong explanation because the patterns in `ignorePatterns` are different from the glob patterns on the command line. The patterns are intended to be the same as `.gitignore`-style patterns, as same as `.eslintignore`.

Therefore, what the `The `.eslintignore` File` section described matches the `ignorePatterns` property. For example, it supports negative patterns (e.g., `!foo.js`).

Therefore, for example, `fs.readFileSync(".gitignore", "utf8").split("\n")` is a valid value of the `ignorePatterns` property.

Reviewer 3: Good catch. @khawarlatifkhan Do you need any additional information to fix this? There's a lot of implicit knowledge here :)

Author: I think I'll need some help with this so that I don't get anything wrong while editing.

Reviewer 3: Here's a suggestion:

```suggestion
You can tell ESLint to ignore specific files and directories using `ignorePatterns` in your config files. `ignorePatterns` patterns follow the same rules as `.eslintignore`. Please see the [the `.eslintignore` file documentation](./ignoring-code.md#the-eslintignore-file) to learn more.
```

```json
{
    "ignorePatterns": ["temp.js", "**/vendor/*.js"],
    "rules": {
        //...
    }
}
```

> * The `ignorePatterns` property affects only the directory that the config file is placed in.

Reviewer: I think maybe you mean this?

```suggestion
* Glob patterns in `ignorePatterns` are relative to the directory that the config file is placed in.
```

* You cannot write `ignorePatterns` property under `overrides` property.

> * `.eslintignore` can override the `ignorePatterns` property of config files.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if "override" is the correct word here. Do you mean if a `.eslintignore` file negates an ignore then it will override what's in the config file?

Reviewer 3: Yes, I believe that's the intention here (e.g. using `.eslintignore` to unignore a specific file that's ignored by a glob pattern in `ignorePatterns`). Maybe something along the lines of the following would be clearer?

```suggestion
* Patterns defined in `.eslintignore` take precedence over the `ignorePatterns` property of config files.
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, it's just combined. It's similar to:

```js
const patterns = [
    ...config.ignorePatterns,
    ...fs.readFileSync(".eslintignore", "utf8").split("\n")
]
```

If a glob pattern starts with `/`, the pattern is relative to the base directory of the config file. For example, `/foo.js` in `lib/.eslintrc.json` matches to `lib/foo.js` but not `lib/subdir/foo.js`.

If a config is provided via the `--config` CLI option, the ignore patterns that start with `/` in the config are relative to the current working directory rather than the base directory of the given config. For example, if `--config configs/.eslintrc.json` is present, the ignore patterns in the config are relative to `.` rather than `./configs`.

> ## `.eslintignore`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `.eslintignore` file
```

* Paths are relative to the current working directory. This is also true of paths passed in via the `--ignore-pattern` [command](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#--ignore-pattern).
* Lines preceded by `!` are negated patterns that re-include a pattern that was ignored by an earlier pattern.
* Ignore patterns behave according to the `.gitignore` [specification](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).

Of particular note is that like `.gitignore` files, all paths used as patterns for both `.eslintignore` and `--ignore-pattern` must use forward slashes as their path separators.

```text
# Valid
/root/src/*.js

# Invalid
\root\src\*.js
```

Please see [`.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore)'s specification for further examples of valid syntax.

In addition to any patterns in the `.eslintignore` file, ESLint always follows a couple of implicit ignore rules even if the `--no-ignore` flag is passed. The implicit rules are as follows:

* `node_modules/` is ignored.
* Dotfiles (except for `.eslintrc.*`), as well as Dotfolders and their contents, are ignored.

There are also some exceptions to these rules:

> * If the path to lint is a glob pattern or directory path and contains a Dotfolder, all Dotfiles and Dotfolders will be linted. This includes sub-dotfiles and sub-dotfolders that are buried deeper in the directory structure.

Reviewer: Dotfolder and Dotfile should probably be dot-folder and dot-file.

Author: we can hyphenate these two. A small question here, though: what about the `sub-dotfiles` and `sub-dotfolders`?

Reviewer: I think we can probably replace those with just dot-files and dot-folders. I'm not sure people will understand sub-dotfiles and sub-dotfolders.

  For example, `eslint .config/` will lint all Dotfolders and Dotfiles in the `.config` directory, including immediate children as well as children that are deeper in the directory structure.

> * If the path to lint is a specific file path and the `--no-ignore` flag has been passed, ESLint will lint the file regardless of the implicit ignore rules.

Reviewer: We may need to reformat this section. The asterisk will create a one-item bullet list here and the next paragraph will not be indented.

Author: <img width="1038" alt="Screenshot 2020-11-28 at 12 05 31 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66240534/100495956-08e21880-3172-11eb-920b-4d9230d49c81.png">

This is how it appears in the current state.  The examples under the bulleted items are indented. Isn't that how we want it to be? Or shall I remove the indents?

Reviewer: That actually looks perfect, thank you!

    eslint foo.js

You'll see this warning:

```text
foo.js
  0:0  warning  File ignored because of a matching ignore pattern. Use "--no-ignore" to override.

✖ 1 problem (0 errors, 1 warning)
```

This message occurs because ESLint is unsure if you wanted to actually lint the file or not. As the message indicates, you can use `--no-ignore` to omit using the ignore rules.

Consider another scenario where you may want to run ESLint on a specific Dotfile or Dotfolder, but have forgotten to specifically allow those files in your `.eslintignore` file. You would run something like this:

    eslint .config/foo.js

You would see this warning:

```text
.config/foo.js
  0:0  warning  File ignored by default.  Use a negated ignore pattern (like "--ignore-pattern '!<relative/path/to/filename>'") to override

✖ 1 problem (0 errors, 1 warning)
```

This message occurs because, normally, this file would be ignored by ESLint's implicit ignore rules (as mentioned above). A negated ignore rule in your `.eslintignore` file would override the implicit rule and reinclude this file for linting. Additionally, in this specific case, `--no-ignore` could be used to lint the file as well.

> ## Disabling Inline Comments

Reviewer: This seems a bit out of place to me as it doesn't relate to ignoring files.

Author: Can we move this entire section under `### Comments in Configuration Files` heading in the `Configuration Files` section? Here's how it will look:

# Configuration Files
## Using Configuration Files
### Comments in Configuration Files
#### Disabling Inline Comments
##### Report unused `eslint-disable` comments

Author: Alternatively, as @kaicataldo suggested in one of our conversations, we can move this particular heading to the `Rules` section. This can go under the `Disabling Rules` heading.

Reviewer: I think moving it under the Rules section makes sense.

To disable all inline config comments, use the `noInlineConfig` setting. For example:

```json
{
  "rules": {...},
  "noInlineConfig": true
}
```

This setting is similar to [--no-inline-config](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#--no-inline-config) CLI option.

> ### Report unused `eslint-disable` comments

Reviewer: Same here. There may be a better place to put these two sections.

In addition to any patterns in the `.eslintignore` file, ESLint always follows a couple of implicit ignore rules even if the `--no-ignore` flag is passed. The implicit rules are as follows:

* `node_modules/` is ignored.

> * Dot-files (except for `.eslintrc.*`), as well as Dot-folders and their contents, are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* dot-files (except for `.eslintrc.*`), as well as dot-folders and their contents, are ignored.
```

There are also some exceptions to these rules:

> * If the path to lint is a glob pattern or directory path and contains a Dot-folder, all Dot-files and Dot-folders will be linted. This includes dot-files and dot-folders that are buried deeper in the directory structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the path to lint is a glob pattern or directory path and contains a dot-folder, all dot-files and dot-folders will be linted. This includes dot-files and dot-folders that are buried deeper in the directory structure.
```

>   For example, `eslint .config/` will lint all Dot-folders and Dot-files in the `.config` directory, including immediate children as well as children that are deeper in the directory structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, `eslint .config/` will lint all dot-folders and dot-files in the `.config` directory, including immediate children as well as children that are deeper in the directory structure.
```

* If the path to lint is a specific file path and the `--no-ignore` flag has been passed, ESLint will lint the file regardless of the implicit ignore rules.

  For example, `eslint .config/my-config-file.js --no-ignore` will cause `my-config-file.js` to be linted. It should be noted that the same command without the `--no-ignore` line will not lint the `my-config-file.js` file.

* Allowlist and denylist rules specified via `--ignore-pattern` or `.eslintignore` are prioritized above implicit ignore rules.

>   For example, in this scenario, `.build/test.js` is the desired file to allowlist. Because all Dot-folders and their children are ignored by default, `.build` must first be allowlisted so that eslint becomes aware of its children. Then, `.build/test.js` must be explicitly allowlisted, while the rest of the content is denylisted. This is done with the following `.eslintignore` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, in this scenario, `.build/test.js` is the desired file to allowlist. Because all dot-folders and their children are ignored by default, `.build` must first be allowlisted so that eslint becomes aware of its children. Then, `.build/test.js` must be explicitly allowlisted, while the rest of the content is denylisted. This is done with the following `.eslintignore` file:
```

This message occurs because ESLint is unsure if you wanted to actually lint the file or not. As the message indicates, you can use `--no-ignore` to omit using the ignore rules.

> Consider another scenario where you may want to run ESLint on a specific Dot-file or Dot-folder, but have forgotten to specifically allow those files in your `.eslintignore` file. You would run something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider another scenario where you may want to run ESLint on a specific dot-file or dot-folder, but have forgotten to specifically allow those files in your `.eslintignore` file. You would run something like this:
```
